BREACH ON THE U.S. GOVERNMENT
MAY BE FAR WORSE, WITH NEW
CLAIMS THAT HACKERS STOLE
PERSONNEL DATA FOR ALL FEDERAL
EMPLOYEES.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY:
THE VATICAN TAKES NEW ACTION TO
HOLD BISHOPS ACCOUNTABLE.
CATHOLIC CHURCH LEADERS NOW FACE
JUDGMENT IF THEY FAIL TO REPORT
SEXUAL ABUSE.
THEN...
>> WE STILL HAVE A LONG HARD
ROAD TO GET TO ZERO.
>> Woodruff: CRACKING EBOLA'S
CODE, AS HEALTH WORKERS KICK
INTO OVERDRIVE TO END AN
EPIDEMIC.
THE SOPHISTICATED PREDICTIONS
USD TOE TRACK AND CONTAIN THE
VIRUS'S EXPONENTIAL THREAT.
PLUS...
>> THE MOST EXPENSIVE THING IN
OUR BUSINESS IS AN EMPTY SEAT.
>> Woodruff: A REVOLUTION
UNDERWAY IN THE RESTAURANT BIZ,
TO REQUIRE DINERS TO PAY IN
ADVANCE TO RESERVE A TABLE.
>> THE PEOPLE WHO AREN'T GOING
TO LIKE THIS ARE THE PEOPLE THAT
LIKE TO SKIP OUT ON
RESERVATIONS.
>> Woodruff: OSE THARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: A GOVERNMENT WORKER
UNION TODAY ALLEGED THE
CYBERATTACK ON U.S. EMPLOYEE
RECORDS WAS FAR WORSE THAN THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION INITIALLY
INDICATED.
IN A LETTER TO THE OFFICE OF
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT, THE
PRESIDENT OF THE AMERICAN
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES
SAID THE HACKERS STOLE THE
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS AND
OTHER PERSONAL DATA OF EVERY
FEDERAL WORKER.
FOR THE LATEST WE TURN TO
ASSOCIATED PRESS INTELLIGENCE
REPORTER KEN DILANIAN.
SO, KEN DILANIAN, HOW MUCH WORSE
IS THIS THAN WHAT'S BEEN
PREVIOUSLY ACKNOWLEDGED?
>> WELL, JUDY, WE KNEW THIS WAS
A SERIOUS BREACH, BUT THE LETTER
TODAY RELEASEED BY THE UNION
LAYS OUT WITH A LOT MORE
SPECIFICITY THAN TH THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION HAD WHAT TYPES OF
INFORMATION WAS STOLEN AND HOW
COMPREHENSIVE IT WAS.
THE UNION IS SAYING ALL THE
INFORMATION IN THE COMPROMISED
DATABASE WAS TAKEN AND THERE ARE
ABOUT 780 CATEGORY OF
INFORMATION IN THE DATABASE--
MILITARY RECORDS, DATES OF
BIRTH, RETIREMENT DATES,
PREVIOUS ADDRESSES, ALL SORTS OF
VERY PERSONAL INFORMATION ON
MILLIONS OF FEDERAL AND RETIRED
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES THAT THIS
UNION IS SAYING THEY BELIEVE
WERE TAKEN.
>> Woodruff: ANDS AS I
UNDERSTAND IT, IT'S ALL FEDERAL
EMPLOYEES, CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES
AND ALL FORMER EMPLOYEES AS
WELL.
>> RIGHT, SO THAT WOULD NOT
INCLUDE MILITARY PEOPLE AND IT
DOESN'T INCLUDE CERTAIN
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY PEOPLE BUT
IT INCLUDES ALMOST EVERYONEES.
>> Woodruff: I ASKED THE WHITE
HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY A FEW
MINUTES AGO ABOUT THIS AND THEY
SAID THEY'RE NOT ABLE TO CONFIRM
IT, BUT THE GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES
UNION, THEY MUST BE BASING THIS
ON INFORMATION THEY HAVE.
>> RIGHT, WELL, THEY'RE BASING
IT ON THEIR ASSESSMENT OF THE
SKETCHY INFORMATION THEY'RE
BEING TOLD BY THE OFFICE OF
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT, WHICH IS
RELEASING VERY LITTLE
INFORMATION, AND SORT OF HEDGING
AND SAYING, "WELL, SOCIAL
SECURITY NUMBERS COULD BE A PART
OF THE INFORMATION THAT WAS
STOLEN."
I MEAN, THEY HAVE SAID, "LOOK,
PERSONNEL INFORMATION WAS HACKD
AND FOUR MILLION PEOPLE WERE
AFFECTED" BUT THEY HAVEN'T SAID
EXACTLY WHAT WAS TAKEN AND
CITING SECURITY REASONS AND THE
PENDING CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION.
>> Woodruff: JUST VERY
QUICKLY, WHAT THEY THINK COULD
BE DONE WITH THIS?
>> IF IN FACT IT'S HACKERS BASED
IN CHINA AS SENATOR HARRY REID
SAID ON THE SENATE FLOOR TODAY,
THE WORRY IS THAT IT'S AN
ESPIONAGE ATTACK ASK THIS
INFORMATION WILL BE USED TO
FURTHER COMPROMISE-- TO USE
AGAINST EMPLOYEES TO COMPROMISE
GOVERNMENT DAEBS THROUGHS SPEAR
FISHING ATTACK GLOOZ KEN
DILANIAN WITH THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS, WE THANK YOU.
>> GOOD TO BE WITH YOU, JUDY,
THANKS.
IN ANOTHER NEWS A CLEVELAND
JUDGE SAID THERE IS ENOUGH
EVIDENCE TO CHARGE TWO POLICEMEN
IN THE NOVEMBER SHOOTING DEATH
OF TAMIR RICE.
THEY FOUND OFFICER TIMOTHY ROMAN
COULD FACE MURDER AND
INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER.
HIS FAR THENER, FRANK GARMS BACK
COULD BE CHARGE CHARGED WITH HOE
AND DERELICTION OF DUTY.
BUT THE JUDGE'S RULING CANNOT
COMPEL PROSECUTORS TO CHARGE THE
TWO OFFICERS.
>> Woodruff: CHINA'S FORMER
SECURITY CHIEF HAS BEEN
SENTENCED TO LIFE IN PRISON ON
CHARGES OF CORRUPTION.
ZHOU YONGKANG IS THE HIGHEST-
RANKING FORMER COMMUNIST
OFFICIAL TO FACE SUCH CHARGES,
AS PART OF CURRENT PRESIDENT XI
JINPING'S ANTI-GRAFT CAMPAIGN.
ZHOU WAS CONVICTED OF RECEIVING
BRIBES, ABUSING HIS POWER, AND
LEAKING STATE SECRETS.
HE APPEARED IN THE BEIJING
COURTROOM FOLLOWING A CLOSED-
DOOR TRIAL.
DOOR TRIAL. >> (
translated): I ACCEPT
THE
>> (translated): I
ACCEPT THE SENTENCE.
SENTENCE.
I DECIDE NOT TO APPEAL.
I PLEAD GUILTY AND REPENT MY
WRONGDOING.
I BROKE THE LAWS AND THE PARTY
RULES INCESSANTLY, AND THE
OBJECTIVE FACTS OF MY CRIMES
HAVE RESULTED IN GRAVE LOSSES TO
THE PARTY AND TO THE NATION.
>> Woodruff: ZHOU RETIRED IN
2012, AND WAS PUT UNDER
INVESTIGATION A YEAR LATER.
THE CO-PILOT WHO SMASHED A
GERMAN PASSENGER PLANE INTO THE
FRENCH ALPS LAST MARCH, WAS
DEEMED UNFIT TO FLY BY SOME OF
THE DOCTORS WHO SAW HIM IN THE
MONTH BEFORE THE CRASH.
THAT WORD CAME TODAY FROM A
FRENCH PROSECUTOR PROBING THE
CRASH, WHICH KILLED ALL 150
PEOPLE ABOARD.
HE SAID THE CO-PILOT, ANDREAS
LUBITZ, WAS LOOKING INTO
PROBLEMS WITH HIS VISION, AND
FEARED GOING BLIND.
BUT DOCTORS DID NOT RAISE
CONCERNS WITH HIS EMPLOYERS ON
ACCOUNT OF GERMANY'S TOUGH
PATIENT-PRIVACY LAWS.
THE MANHUNT FOR TWO CONVICTED
MURDERERS WHO ESCAPED FROM AN
UPSTATE NEW YORK PRISON OVER THE
WEEKEND INTENSIFIED TODAY AFTER
BLOODHOUNDS APPEARED TO PICK UP
THEIR SCENT.
OFFICIALS SEARCHED VEHICLES AT
CHECKPOINTS NEAR THE PRISON AS
INVESTIGATORS FOCUSED ON AN AREA
TWO MILES EAST OF THE FACILITY.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTED
THE MEN MAY HAVE LAID LOW IN THE
AREA AFTER THEIR GETAWAY DRIVER
BACKED OUT.
>> AT THIS TIME WE ARE REMAINING
IN THE AREA UNTIL WE HAVE
CONDUCTED A THOROUGH SEARCH.
WE ARE LOOKING UNDER EVERY ROCK,
BEHIND EVERY TREE AND INSIDE
EVERY STRUCTURE UNTIL WE CATCH
THESE TWO.
>> Woodruff: 500 POLICE OFFICERS
ARE INVOLVED IN THE SEARCH
EFFORTS, WHICH HAVE ALSO
EXPANDED INTO VERMONT.
SOCIAL MEDIA GIANT TWITTER
ANNOUNCED ITS C.E.O. IS STEPPING
DOWN.
DICK COSTOLO WILL RESIGN AS
CHIEF EXECUTIVE ON JULY 1, AFTER
A FIVE-YEAR TENURE.
FORMER PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON
HAS SAID HE COULD QUIT GIVING
PAID SPEECHES, IF HIS WIFE
HILLARY IS ELECTED PRESIDENT.
BUT HE INSISTED, DURING AN
INTERVIEW YESTERDAY WITH
BLOOMBERG TELEVISION, THAT HE'LL
STILL GIVE SPEECHES, ON SUBJECTS
HE'S INTERESTED IN.
LAST MONTH, THE CLINTONS
REVEALED THEY EARNED MORE THAN
$25 MILLION DOLLARS IN SPEAKING
FEES SINCE THE START OF 2014.
MR. CLINTON ALSO SAID IT WOULD
BE UP TO HIS WIFE TO DECIDE IF
HE'D STAY AT THE CLINTON GLOBAL
INITIATIVE.
>> I BELIEVE IF YOU HAVE BEEN
PRESIDENT, AND THE CURRENT
PRESIDENT OF EITHER PARTY ASKS
YOU TO DO ANYTHING, IF IN GOOD
CONSCIENCE YOU CAN DO IT, YOU
SHOULD DO IT.
NOW THAT'S THE TRUTH, QUITE
APART FROM OUR BEING HUSBAND AND
WIFE.
THAT WILL BE NOT AN EASY
DECISION, SHOULD SHE BE ELECTED
PRESIDENT.
>> Woodruff: MR. CLINTON STARTED
THE FOUNDATION IN 2005.
AMERICA'S MULTIRACIAL POPULATION
IS GROWING AT A RATE THREE TIMES
HIGHER THAN THE U.S. POPULATION
AS A WHOLE.
THAT'S ACCORDING TO A NEW SURVEY
BY THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER.
IT FOUND 6.9% OF THE U.S.
POPULATION HAS MORE THAN ONE
RACE IN THEIR BACKGROUND,
INCLUDING PARENTS OR
GRANDPARENTS.
WHITES WITH NATIVE AMERICAN
ANCESTRY COMPRISE HALF OF THE
CURRENT POPULATION OF MIXED RACE
AMERICANS.
BUT THEY'RE ALSO AMONG THE LEAST
LIKELY TO IDENTIFY AS
MULTIRACIAL.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, THE FEDERAL
RESERVE REPORTED AMERICAN
HOUSEHOLD WEALTH ROSE TO A
RECORD HIGH OF $84.9 TRILLION IN
THE FIRST QUARTER.
THAT'S LARGELY DUE TO RISING
STOCK AND HOME PRICES.
AND ON WALL STREET, STOCKS
TRADED SLIGHTLY HIGHER ON STRONG
RETAIL SALES AND OPTIMISM ABOUT
GREECE'S DEBT TALKS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED ALMOST 39 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 18,039.
THE NASDAQ ROSE NEARLY SIX
POINTS, AND THE S&P 500 WAS UP
MORE THAN THREE.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE WHITE HOUSE SCRAMBLES IN A
DOWN TO THE WIRE FIGHT WITH
CONGRESS OVER TRADE.
A TRANSITION OF POWER FOR MEDIA
GIANTS A21STT CENTURY FOX.
HOLDING BISHOPS ACCOUNTABLE FOR
CHILD SEX ABUSE COVER-UPS.
NICOLA STURGEON THE MOST SIOREN
POLITICIAN IS LEADING THE CAUSE
FOR INDEPENDENCE.
HOW PREDICTIVE MODELS HELPED
STOP THE EXPONENTIAL SPREAD OF
EBOLA.
AND, WHY MORE RESTAURANTS MAY
REQUIRE A DEPOSIT TO RESERVE A
TABLE.
>> Woodruff: THE WHITE HOUSE AND
ADVOCATES OF A PACIFIC TRADE
DEAL ARE SCRAMBLING AS A
CRITICAL VOTE TO GIVE THE
PRESIDENT FAST-TRACK TRADE
AUTHORITY IS SET FOR TOMORROW.
THE ISSUE HAS DEMOCRATS DIVIDED-
- WITH THE PRESIDENT PUSHING FOR
THE TRANS-PACIFIC PARTNERSHIP
AND OTHERS PUSHING BACK OVER
WORKER CONCERNS.
I TALKED WITH WHITE HOUSE PRESS
SECRETARY JOSH EARNEST A SHORT
TIME AGO.
JOSH EARNEST, WELCOME.
SO THE ADMINISTRATION SEEMS TO
BE FIGHTING A BATTLE ON TWO
DIFFERENT FRONTS.
WHERE DO THE THE VOTES STAND
TODAY?
>> WELL, JUDY, THE CASE WE'RE
MAKING, PRINCIPALLY TO DEMOCRATS
BUT TO SOME REPUBLICANS, IS THAT
THE TRADE PROMOTION AUTHORITY
THAT CONGRESS IS PREPARED TO
CONSIDER IS THE MOST PROGRESSIVE
PIECE OF TRADE LEGISLATION THAT
THE CONGRESS HAS EVER TRIED TO
PASS.
IT INCLUDES ENFORCEABLE LABOR
STANDARDS, ENFORCEABLE
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS.
IT INCLUDES WRITTEN LANGUAGE
ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE NEED
TO RESPECT BASIC HUMAN RIGHTS.
THIS IS ALL ABOUT RAISING
STANDARDS SO WE CAN START TO
LEVEL THE PLAYING FIELD AND OPEN
UP OPPORTUNITIES FOR AMERICAN
BUSINESS AND OVERSEAS MARKETS.
THAT WILL BE GOOD FOR OUR
ECONOMY AND GOOD FOR CREATING
JOBS RIGHT HERE IN AMERICA.
AND WE FEEL LIKE WE'VE GOT A
PRETTY PERSUASIVE PITCH TO MAKE
TO DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS,
AND I ANTICIPATE THAT WE'RE
GOING TO BE MAKING THAT PITCH
RIGHT UP UNTIL THE DEADLINE.
>> Woodruff: I'M SURE YOU
KNOW, REPUBLICANS HAVE PROBLEMS
WITH THE FAST TRACK AUTHORITY.
YOUR DEMOCRATIC PROGRESSIVE
FRIENDS ARE CALLING THE TRADE
PACKAGE-- THEY'RE USING WORDS
LIKE "UNDUE SECRECY, STRETCHING
LIMITS OF EXECUTIVE POWER."
THEY ARE PRETTY UPSET ABOUT
THIS.
>> WELL, JUDY, WHEN IT COMES TO
THE SECRECY ARGUMENT, THERE'S
JUST NO TRUTH TO IT.
THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS, EVERY
SINGLE MEMBER OF CONGRESS CAN
SEE WHERE THE NEGOTIATING
DOCUMENT CURRENTLY STANDS.
WE, OBVIOUSLY, HAVEN'T FINISHED
THIS TRADE AGREEMENT, BUT WE'RE
HOPING TO SOON.
SO EVERY MEMBER OF CONGRESS
BEFORE THEY CAST A VOTE IF
THEY'RE CURIOUS TO UNDERSTAND
EXACTLY WHERE THE NEGOTIATIONS
STAND, THEY CAN GO SEE FOR
THEMSELVES.
THE FACT IS, IF AND WHEN A DEAL
IS COMPLETED, THE PRESIDENT HAS
INDICATED THAT WE WOULD ACTUALLY
GIVE THE PUBLIC 60 DAYS TO TAKE
A CLOSE LOOK AT THAT AGREEMENT
BEFORE THE PRESIDENT WOULD EVEN
SIGN IT.
THEN AFTER THAT, CONGRESS WOULD
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO DEBATE
THE WISDOM OF THIS AGREEMENT,
AND, OF COURSE, THAT DEBATE AND
THE AGREEMENT WOULD ALL TAKE
PLACE IN PUBLIC.
SO THERE WILL BE AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR THE PUBLIC TO HAVE THEIR
SAY.
BUT THE FACT IS RIGHT NOW, WE'RE
STILL NEGOTIATING AN AGREEMENT,
SO THE FACT IS THERE'S NOT AN
AGREEMENT TO PRODUCE AT THIS
POINT.
>> Woodruff: IF THAT'S THE
CASE, WHY THEN, IS THERE
SIGNIFICANT OPPOSITION FROM
ORGANIZED LABOR.
RICH TRUMKA SAID, "THIS DOESN'T
JUST HURT INDUSTRIAL WORKERS.
IT HURTS PROFESSIONAL WORKERS.
IT HURTS TEACHERS, IT HURTS
PUBLIC WORKERS BUYER DOING AWAY
WITH THE TAX BASE," AND HE GOES
ON.
>> JUDY, WHAT WE HAVE SEEN--
THIS IS NOT UNUSUAL.
DEMOCRATS TRADITIONALLY HAVE
REFLEXIVELY BEEN OPPOSED TO
TRADE LEGISLATION, AND A LOT OF
THAT OPPOSITION IS ACTUALLY A
REFLECTION OF THE IMPACT OF
PREVIOUS TRADE BILLS.
THE FACT IS WHAT THE PRESIDENT
HAS SAID IS LET'S LEARN THE
LESSONS FROM THOSE PREVIOUS
TRADE AGREEMENTS AND ACTUALLY
MAKE SURE WE CAN PUT IN PLACE
ENFORCEABLE STANDARDS THAT WILL
ENSURE THIS KIND OF TRADE
AGREEMENT IS GOOD FOR OUR
ECONOMY AND MIDDLE CLASS
WORKERS.
YOU'LL RECALL, JUDY, WHEN
PRESIDENT RAN FOR PRESIDENT BACK
IN 2007 AND 2008, HE MADE A
PROMISE TO DEMOCRATIC VOTERS AT
THIS TIME IN A DEMOCRATIC PRIOR
THAT HE WOULD RENEGOTIATE NAFTA
TO CORRECT SOME OF THE FLAWS
THAT WERE IN THAT TRADE
AGREEMENT.
TURNS OUT AS A PART OF THE
TRANS-PACIFIC PARTNERSHIP
NEGOTIATION, BOTH CANADA CANADA
AND MEXICO ARE INCLUDED IN THOSE
NEGOTIATIONS AND FOR THE FIRST
TIME WE WOULD WRITE INTO OUR
TRADE RELATIONSHIP WITH THOSE
TWO COUNTRIES ENFORCEABLE
STANDARDS AS IT ARE THES TO
RAISING ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS,
AND MAKING SURE THERE ARE
PROTECTIONS IN PLACE FOR HUMAN
RIGHT.
THIS IS THE PRESIDENT KEEPING A
PROMISE ON THIS.
>> Woodruff: I WAS JUST GOING
TO SAY IF THESE ARGUMENTS ARE SO
STRONG, WHY ARE YOU HAVING SUCH
A DIFFICULT TIME WITH MEMBERS OF
YOUR OWN PARTY?
THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN MAKING
HIS CASE FOR MONTHS NOW AND IT'S
COMING RIGHT DOWN TO THE WIRE
AND IT'S NOT CLEAR YOU WILL
GETTA YOU'RE ASKING FOR.
>> WE HAVE SEEN FOR DECADES
DEMOCRATS HAVE ALMOST
CONSISTENTLY BEEN OPPOSED TO
TRADE AGREEMENTS.
WE KNEW WE WERE GOING TO BE
MOVING UPSILL, FAEPS THE STREAM
WHICH IT COMES TO OUR OWN PARTY
POLITICS UPON WE HAD OUR CHANCE
TO MAKE A CASE TO THE SENATE,
AND WE GOT ALMOST TWO-THIRDS TO
VOTE IN FAVOR OF THE
LEGISLATION.
I DON'T EVEN WE'RE GOING TO GET
THAT HIGH A PERCENTAGE IN THE
HOUSE BUT IT IS A GOOD
INDICATION WHEN DEMOCRATS KEEP
AN OPEN MIND AND CONSIDER THIS
APPROACH, THERE'S AMPLE REASON
FOR THEM TO SUPPORT APPROACH THE
PRESIDENT IS ADVOCATING.
>> Woodruff: SO AT THIS POINT,
JUST QUICKLY, WHAT DO-- WHAT DO
YOU THINK IS GOING TO HAPPEN
WHEN IT COMES TO A VOTE JOAT
THIS POINT, JUDY, WE FEEL
CONFIDENT AS WE SORT OF WORK OUR
WAY THROUGH THE SAUSAGE MAKING
PROCESS WE'RE GOING TO BE ABLE
TO BUILD ENOUGH OF A BIPARTISAN
MAJORITY WITH DEMOCRATS AND
REPUBLICANS SUPPORTING IT, TO
ADVANCE THE LEGISLATION AND GIVE
THE PRESIDENT THE OPPORTUNITY TO
COMPLETE NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE
TRANS-PACIFIC PARTNERSHIP
INACTIONS, AND ACTUALLY OPEN UP
OVERSEAS MARKETS TO AMERICAN
GOODS AND SERVICES THAT WILL
CREATE OPPORTUNITY HERE IN THE
UNITED STATES.
IT WILL BE GOOD FOR OUR ECONOMY.
AND MOST IMPORTANTLY TWILL
CREATE THE KIND OF GOOD,
MIDDLE-CLASS JOBS THAT OUR
RELIES ON.
>> Woodruff: JOSH EARNEST
PRESS SECRETARY TO THE
PRESIDENT, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU,
>> Woodruff: RUPERT MURDOCH, ONE
OF THE BIGGEST MEDIA MOGULS,
WHO'S LONG HEADED AN EMPIRE
WORTH TENS OF BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS AND MAJOR INFLUENCE,
ANNOUNCED HE'S READY TO STEP
ASIDE FROM THE TOP JOB.
THE 84-YEAR-OLD MEDIA TITAN IS
PAVING THE WAY TO KEEP THE
FAMILY BUSINESS IN THE FAMILY.
NUMEROUS REPORTS TODAY,
INCLUDING FROM FOX NEWS, SAID HE
WILL HAND THE C.E.O. JOB TO HIS
42-YEAR-OLD SON, JAMES, AND
ANOTHER SON, LACHLAN WILL BECOME
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
BUT THE ELDER MURDOCH WON'T GO
FAR: HE WILL ALSO REMAIN CO-
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, AND RETAIN
MANY DECISION-MAKING POWERS.
THE RE-ORGANIZATION IS THE NEXT
STEP IN A CCESSUSION PLAN FOR
ONE OF THE INDUSTRY'S MOST
POWERFUL FIGURES.
MURDOCH'S WIDE AMBITIONS WERE
EVIDENT WHEN HE WAS INDUCTED
INTO THE TELEVISION ACADEMY HALL
OF FAME IN 2011:
>> NONE OF US SHOULD BE
SATISFIED AT WHAT WE HAVE DONE.
SURELY, WE MUST BE EXCITED AT
THE PROSPECT OF WHAT WE CAN AND
WILL DO.
>> Woodruff: MURDOCH'S CAREER
STARTED WHEN HE TOOK OVER A
SINGLE NEWSPAPER IN HIS NATIVE
AUSTRALIA IN THE 1950S.
HE BOUGHT MORE PAPERS IN
AUSTRALIA, THE U.K., AND THE
U.S. AND TWO U.S. PUBLISHING
COMPANIES, FORMING HARPER-
COLLINS.
HE HAD ALSO CREATED A BURGEONING
MEDIA BEHEMOTH: NEWS
CORPORATION.
IN THE 1980S, HE STARTED THE FOX
NETWORK, BEFORE TACKLING CABLE
TV WH FOITX NEWS IN 1996.
>> AND WELCOME BACK TO HANNITY,
TIME FOR MEDIA MASH, OUR WEEKLY
>> Woodruff: THE RIGHT-LEANING
CHANNEL NOW DOMINATES CABLE
NEWS.
BUT DESPITE BIG MOVES LIKE THE
PURCHASE OF "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" OWNER DOW JONES IN
2007, HIS NEWSPAPERS HAVE
STRUGGLED.
>> THIS IS THE MOST HUMBLE DAY
OF MY LIFE.
>> Woodruff: A PHONE HACKING
SCANDAL ENGULFED MURDOCH'S
BRITISH TABLOID EMPIRE IN 2011;
JAMES MURDOCH WAS THE HEAD OF
ITS U.K. BUSINESSES, AND FORCED
TO RESIGN
IN THE SCANDAL'S WAKE, THE
ORIGINAL "NEWS CORPORATION" WAS
SPLIT INTO TWO PARTS: A PRINT
BUSINESS, KNOWN AS NEWS CORP,
AND THE FILM AND BROADCASTING
BUSINESS, 21st CENTURY FOX.
THE LATEST MOVES ARE SET TO BE
DISCUSSED AT A BOARD MEETING IN
COMING WEEKS.
LET'S LOOK AT THE IMPACT OF
RUPERT MURDOCH AS HIS ROLE
CHANGES WITHIN HIS COMPANY.
DAVID FOLKENFLIK IS THE MEDIA
CORRESPONDENT FOR NPR, AND THE
AUTHOR OF: "MURDOCH'S WORLD: THE
LAST OF THE OLD MEDIA EMPIRES."
DAVID FOLKENFLICK, WELCOME BACK
TO THE PROGRAM.
I KNOW THAT NEWS CORP HAS NOT
MADE AN OFFICIAL STATEMENT YET,
BUT WHAT DO THEY-- WHAT ARE THEY
SAYING ABOUT WHAT'S HAPPENING?
>> WELL, OF COURSE, THERE ARE
THESE TWO GREAT ARMS OF THE
MURDOCH EMPIRE, 21st CENTURY
FOX, AND NEWS CORP.
21st CENTURY FOX IS MERELY
SAYING THAT THE ISSUE OF
SUCCESSION WILL BE ADDRESSED AT
THE NEXT BOARD MEETING AS
PLANNED AND THEY'RE SAYING
NOTHING ELSE.
INSIDE THE COMPANY, OF COURSE,
THEY'RE SIGNALING WHAT WE NOW
KNOW TO BE THE CASE AND THAT'S
THAT MURDOCH IS EXECUTING A PLAN
THAT HE ESSENTIALLY ONE WAY OR
ANOTHER HATCHED WHEN THESE TWO
MEN WERE BOYS.
HE ALWAYS WANTED TO HAND THIS
OVER TO MURDOCHS TO RUN, AS HIS
FATHER HAD BEFORE HIM.
HE'S OF AN AGE-- HE NEVER
SERIOUS HE CONSIDERED GIVING IT
TO EITHER TWO OF THE ADULT
DAUGHTERS TO RUN AND JAMES AND
LACHLAN ARE SORT OF COLLEGLIA
COMPETITORS, COMPETITIVE
COLLEAGUES, IF YOU WILL.
THEY HAVE BEEN PITTED AGAINST
EACH ENERGY SUCCESSION STAKES
AND HERE THEY ARE GOING TO BE
RUNNING 21st CENTURY FOX IN
TANDEM BELOW THEIR FATHER.
>> Woodruff: HOW IS IT
EXPECTED THAT THINGS WILL
CHANGE?
>> I DON'T EVEN AT FIRST IT WILL
CHANGE GREATLY EXCEPT IF YOU
THINK IN SOME WAYS ABOUT JAMES,
THAT HE'S PUT AN EMPHASIS ON NEW
MEDIA, DIGITAL.
HE'S LEFT BEHIND THE ROMANTICISM
OF NEWSPAPER THAT HIS FATHER HAS
EMBRACED FOR SO MANY DECADES.
IN SOME WAYS THE MOST PALPABLE
CHANGE IS YOU'VE SEEN THE EXIGHT
OF CHASE CAREY, A LONGTIME
SENIOR EXECUTIVE, BEFORE HIM
PETER CHURNIN.
THESE WERE THE SENIOR EXECUTIVES
NOT NAMED MURDOCH WHO HAD
EFFECTIVELY RUN THE PLACE AND
HELPED TO SET A TONE OF TRUST
WITH MAJOR INVESTORS OUTSIDE THE
MURDOCH FAMILY.
NOW RUPERT MURDOCH IS SAYING HE
TRUSTS HIS OWN JUDGMENT AND HIS
OWN D.N.A. TO ENSURE THE
COMPANY'S FINANCIAL LEGACY FOR
THE YEARS AHEAD.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT ARE-- YOU
MENTIONED DIGITAL.
WHAT ARE THE SONS' INTERESTS?
HOW DO YOU SEE THEM TAKING THE--
WHAT DIRECTION DO YOU SEE THEM
TAKING THE COMPANY IN?
>> WELL, THERE ARE SOME VERY
INTERESTING INVESTMENTS AND
PROJECTS THAT I THINK YOU CAN
LOOK TO FOR PROVIDING SOME
GUIDANCE, EVEN AS THE LANDSCAPE
IN MEDIA SHIFTS SO QUICKLY AND
SIGNIFICANTLY FROM YEAR TO YEAR
THAT IT'S HARD TO PREDICT.
JAMES MURDOCH WAS SAID TO BE
SIGNIFICANTLY INVOLVED IN THE
DECISION BY 21st CENTURY FOX
TO INVEST A DECENT CHUNK OF
CHANGE IN VICE, THE
MULTIPLATFORM, MULTIOUTLET
ENTITY THAT ITS OWN KIND OF
PIRATE ENTITY RUN BY SHANE SMITH
IN NEW YORK.
THAT'S NOT SOMETHING YOU WOULD
HAVE THOUGHT OF FOX NEWS AS
INVESTING IN, KIND OF OUTFIT.
THERE HAS BEEN A SIGNIFICANT DUS
DIS TRUST AND ILL WELL BETWEEN
THE MURDEROKS' SONS AND ALES.
I DON'T THINK YOU'LL SEE ALES
SIDELINED IMMEDIATELY.
HE IS IN HIS MID-70s.
HE'S NOT IN PARTICULARLY GOOD
HEALTH AND
MEASURED LIKE SKY NEWS IN
THE U.K., AUSTRALIA, AND
ELSEWHERE-- THAT IS, LIVELY,
PEPPY, SOMETIMES STRONG VOICES
ON THE AIR BUT NOT ITSELF TAKING
A STRONG POINT OF VIEW IN THE
WAY FOX SOOEMED SEEMS TO BY THE
SELECTION OF STORIES AND GUESTS.
THOSE ARE REAL SIGNIFICANT
INDICATIONS OF WHERE THINGS
COULD GO.
>> Woodruff: I SAW THAT ROGER
ALES WILL CONTINUE TO REPORT
DIRECTLY TO RUPERT MURDOCH, AT
LEAST THAT WAS THE EARLY
REPORTING.
JUST QUICKLY, SO AT THIS POINT,
DAVID FOLKENFLICK, WHAT WOULD
YOU SAY IS THE LEGACY OF RUPERT
MURDOCH?"
>> WELL, I WOULD SAY THAT RUPERT
MURDOCH HAS SHOWN INNOVATION BY
CIRCUMVENTION, GOING AROUND
CONVENTIONAL WISDOM, SOMETIMES
GOING AROUND REGULATIONS AND
LAWS, REFUSING MANY TIMES TO
TAKE NO FOR AN ANSWER, BEING A
CREATIVE FORCE IN MANY WAYS, A
FOURTH NETWORK IN FOX, FOX NEWS
AS A CHALLENGE AND REINVENTION
OF WHAT WEEK OF AS CABLE NEWS,
AND THE TABLOID SPIRIT, OF
COURSE, ANIMATING SO MUCH OF
WHAT HE DOES BUT AS WELL AS
BEING CREATIVE A DESTRUCTIVE
ONE, A PUGILISTIC, OFTEN
MEAN-SPIRITED CHARACTER THAT
WOULD FLAR UP ON HIS FRONT PAGES
HERE IN THE U.S. SOMETIMES IN
THE OPINION VOICE ON FOX NEWS IN
PARTICULAR.
I THINK THAT'S VERY MUCH A PART
OF WHO MURDOCH IS.
HE'S A CHAMPION FOR MEDIA.
HE'S A FRIEND TO THE OLD-LINE
MEDIA AND NEWSPAPERS, BUT HE'S
ALSO GOT A VERY DIFFERENT TAKE
ON WHAT IT MEANS TO BE A
NEWSPAPERMAN, MORE CRUSADING,
NOT ALWAYS PARTICULARLY FAIR
FIGURE BUT ALWAYS ONE OF GREAT
INTEREST AS YOU LOOK AT HOW THE
MEDIA WORKS.
>> Woodruff: 21st CENTURY
FOX MAKING SERIOUS CHANGES.
DAVID FOLKENFLICK, WE THANK YOU.
>> YOU BET.
>> Woodruff: POPE FRANCIS HAS
MADE HIS MOST SIGNIFICANT MOVE
YET TO DEAL WITH THE SEXUAL
ABUSE SCANDALS THAT HAVE PLAGUED
THE CHURCH FOR MORE THAN THREE
DECADES.
YESTERDAY, THE VATICAN ANNOUNCED
AN UNPRECEDENTED STEP THAT
VICTIMS HAVE LONG SOUGHT: A
TRIBUNAL TO JUDGE AND DISCIPLINE
BISHOPS ACCUSED OF COVERING UP
OR FAILING TO ACT ON REPORTS OF
CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: MORE THAN 800
PRIESTS HAVE BEEN DEFROCKED OVER
THE YEARS, AND 2,500 HAVE BEEN
PENALIZED.
BUT UNTIL NOW, NO POPE HAS
PUBLICLY CONFRONTED OR PUNISHED
A BISHOP HIMSELF FOR SUCH
OFFENSES.
SEVERAL BISHOPS HERE AND ABOARD
ARE UNDER INVESTIGATION AFTER
BEING ACCUSED OF COVERING UP
SUCH CRIMES.
A NUMBER OF VICTIMS' GROUPS
SUPPORTED THE MOVE, BUT SOME
ALSO SAID IT DID NOT GO FAR
ENOUGH.
JOHN ALLEN CLOSELY COVERS THE
VATICAN.
HE IS AN ASSOCIATE EDITOR OF THE
"BOSTON GLOBE" AND CRUX, THE
GLOBE'S WEB SITE COVERING THE
CATHOLIC CHURCH.
SO, JOHN, I REMEMBER HOW
MOMENTOUS IT WAS WHEN POPE JOHN
PAUL II APOLOGIZED FOR SEXUAL
ABUSE.
HOW BIG OF A DEAL IS THIS
TRIBUNAL THAT WILL GO AFTER
BISHOPS?
>> WELL, HARI, I THINK IT'S AN
ENORMOUSLY BIG DEAL, IF IT WORKS
AS IT'S BEEN DESCRIBED.
THE CENTRAL BONE OF CONTENTION
AMONG SURVIVORSES OF, BIEWS AND
THEIR ADVOCACY GROUP OVER THE
YEARS HAS BEEN THE CATHOLIC
CHURCH HAS ADOPTED VERY STERN
POLICIES FOR ABUSE.
THEY'VE OFFICIALLY EMBRACED ZERO
TOLERANCE.
TODAY IF A PRIEST IS ACCUSED OF
OF ABUSING A MINOR, HE'S GOING
TO BE YANKED OUT OF MINISTRY AND
PROBABLY ULTIMATELY KICKED OUT
OF THE PRIESTHOOD RELATIVELY
QUICKLY.
THEIR COMPLAINT HAS BEEN THERE
HASN'T BEEN A SIMILAR SYSTEM OF
ACCOUNTABILITY FOR BISHOP HOZ
COVERED UP THESE CRIMES, AND
THAT'S,OB, THE HOLE THAT PROVOST
IS TRYING TO FILL.
WE SHOULD SAY, HARI, THAT
VATICAN OFFICIALS HAVE BEEN AT
PAINS TO INSIST THAT THIS NEW
SYSTEM IS NOT INTENDED TO
REPLACE CRIMINAL LIABILITY IN
TERMS OF SECULAR LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
THAT IS, IF A BISHOP'S FAILURE
TO ACT ON A COMPLAINT OF CHILD
ABUSE CONSTITUTES A CRIME IN THE
PLACE WHERE HE LIVES ARE THE
VATICAN IS SAYING HE STILL HAS
TO FACE THE MUSIC FOR THAT.
THIS IS INTENDED TO ENSURE THAT
IN ADDITION TO THAT CRIMINAL
EXPOSURE THERE IS ALSO INTERNAL
ECCLES AFTICAL LIABILITY WHICH
TYPICALLY IN PRACTICE MEANS THE
BISHOP WOULD LOSE HIS JOB.
>> Sreenivasan: SO THOSE
BISHOPS THAT COULD LOSE THEIR
JOB INCLUDES SOME BISHOPS IN THE
UNITED STATES THAT HAVE BEEN
CAUGHT UP IN THIS AND ACCUSED OF
COVERING THINGS UP RIGHT?
>> YEAH, THAT'S RIGHT.
UP UNTIL VERY RECENTLY, MANY
PEOPLE WOULD HAVE ARGUED THAT
THE FIRST LOGICAL CASE FOR THIS
TRIBUNAL TO TAKE UP WOULD HAVE
BEEN THE CASE OF BISHOP ROBERT
FINN OF KANSAS CITY ST. JOSEPH
IN MISSOURI, WHO BECAME THE
FIRST AMERICAN BISHOP TO BE
CRIMINALLY CONVICTED ON A
MISDEMEANOR CHARGE OF DELAYING
TO REPORT A CHARGE OF CHILD
ABUSE.
AND YET FOR ANOTHER 2.5 YEARS
CONTINUED TO SIT WITH NO
APPARENT CHURCH CONSEQUENCES AS
THE LEADER OF THAT DIOCESES.
IN FEBRUARY, POPE FRANCIS
ACCEPTED HIS RESIGNATION, SO
FINN HAS ALREADY LOST HIS
POSITION.
BUT ANOTHER SITUATION THAT A LOT
OF PEOPLE WOULD HAVE THEIR EYES
WOULD BE IN THE ARCHDIOCESE OF
ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS LIS, IN
MINNESOTA, WHERE THE ARCH BISHOP
THERE HAS BEEN ACCUSED OF
KNOWINGLY ALLOWING AT LEAST TWO
PRIESTS, ONE OF WHOM HAS BEEN
ACCUSED OF CHILD ABUSE, THE
OTHER ACTUALLY CONVICTED OF IT,
TO CONTINUE TO SERVE AS RECENTLY
AS 2013-2014, WHICH, IF TRUE,
WOULD BE A CLEAR VIOLATION OF
THE CHURCH'S ZERO-TOLERANCE
POLICY.
MANY PEOPLE BELIEVE THAT THAT
MIGHT BE ONE OF THE FIRST CASES
THIS NEW TRIBUNAL TAKES UP.
>> Sreenivasan: SO SINCE THIS
ANNOUNCEMENT CAME OUT, YOU HAVE
HAD A CHANCE TO TALK TO
SURVIVORS' GROUPS.
WHAT DO THEY SAY?
>> I THINK THE REACTION IS
MIXED, HARI.
ON THE ONE HAND, I THINK THERE
ARE MANY SURVIVORS WHO WOULD SAY
THAT TO THEM THIS COMES OFF AS
CHURCH OFFICIALS JUDGING OTHER
CHURCH OFFICIALS AND THEY,
FRANKLY HAVE, RELATIVELY LITTLE
CONFIDENCE IN THE SPEGHT OF
THOSE PROCEDURES.
OTHERS THINK THERE IS SOMETHING
NEW ABOUT THE COMMITMENT OF POPE
FRANCIS TO GET THIS RIGHT.
POPE FRANCIS HAS VOWED THAT ON
HIS WATCH-- THIS IS HIS ALONG
THERE WILL BE NO REQUESTED
DADDY'S BOYS."
THAT IS, CHURCH OFFICIALS WHO
GET SPECIAL TREATMENT BECAUSE
THEY'RE HIGHER YOU WANT FOOD
CHAIN AND THEY WANT TO BELIEVE
THAT THAT'S GOING TO BE
TRANSLATED INTO ACTION.
I SPOKE RECENTLY WITH A SURVIVOR
BY THE NAME OF PETER SAUNDERS IN
GREAT BRITAIN WHO ACTUALLY SITS
ON A PAPAL COMMISSION ADVISING
THE PONTIFF ON SEX ABUSE MATTERS
WHO DESCRIBED THIS AS A VERY
POSITIVE STEP THAT INDICATES THE
POPE IS LISTENING TO SURVIVORS.
SO I THINK THE CLIMATE OUT THERE
IS THAT PEOPLE WANT TO BELIEVE
THIS IS A STEP IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION BUT THEY'RE GOING TO
WITHHOLD JUDGMENT UNTIL THEY SEE
HOW IT ACTUALLY WORKS DISPLOO.
>> Sreenivasan: JOHN ALLEN OF
THE "BOSTON GLOBE" AND THE CRUX,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Woodruff: NOW, A LOOK AT A
RISING POLITICAL POWERHOUSE FROM
SCOTLAND-- NICOLA STURGEON, THE
FIRST FEMALE SCOTTISH FIRST
MINISTER.
LAST MONTH IN FRONT OF ONE OF
SCOTLAND'S ICONIC STRUCTURES,
THE FORTH BRIDGE, NICOLA
STURGEON CELEBRATED HER SCOTTISH
NATIONAL PARTY'S WIN OF NEARLY
ALL OF THE SEATS IN PARLIAMENT
ALLOCATED TO SCOTLAND IN THE UK
ELECTIONS.
A FEW DAYS LATER, THE GROUP OF
S.N.P. MEMBERS MADE THEIR WAY TO
LONDON AND THE ENTRANCE TO
WESTMINSTER, WHERE PRIME
MINISTER DAVID CAMERON'S
CONSERVATIVE PARTY KEPT ITS GRIP
ON POWER.
>> WE A ABSREOLUTELY HERE TO
STAND UP FOR SCOTLAND AND DAVID
CAMERON SHOULD BE IN NO DOUBT
ABOUT THAT.
>> Woodruff: JUST NINE MONTHS
AGO SCOTLAND WENT TO THE POLLS
AND VOTED "NO" TO INDEPENDENCE
BY 55 TO 45%.
THEN, S.N.P. LEADER ALEX SALMOND
RESIGNED, AND INTO HIS SHOES
STEPPED THE 44-YEAR-OLD NICOLA
STURGEON.
PRIME MINISTER CAMERON MADE HIS
WAY TO SCOTLAND SHORTLY AFTER
LAST MONTH'S ELECTION TO DISCUSS
THE FUTURE OF BRITAIN, EVEN AS
STURGEON CALLED FOR THE POWER TO
SET INCOME TAX AND WELFARE
SPENDING.
TODAY, SHE SAT DOWN TO TALK WITH
US AT THE COUNCIL ON FOREIGN
RELATIONS IN WASHINGTON.
FIRST MINISTER NICOLA STURGEON,
THANK YOU FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IT'S A JOY TO BE HERE.
>> Woodruff: SO AMERICANS
LOOKING ACROSS THE ATLANTIC
OCEAN SEEING THIS NEW
RELATIONSHIP.
IS THAT WHAT WE SHOULD CALL IT,
BETWEEN SCOTLAND AND THE REST OF
THE U.K.?
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT'S A
REASONABLE WAY TO DESCRIBE IT.
SCOTLAND IS STILL PART OF THE
UNITED KINGDOM.
WE'RE MORE AUTONOMOUS, AND OUR
PARLIAMENT WILL BE MORE
AUTONOMOUS, AND THE INFLUENCE OF
THE SCOTTISH GOVERNMENT I THINK
WILL INCREASE IN THE YEARS TO
COME.
AND FOR THE UNITED STATES, THAT
MEANS I THINK A GREATER
RECOGNITION OF THE FACT THAT
SCOTLAND IS A PARTNER IN TRADING
TERMS, AND AN ALLY IN TERMS OF
THE BIG INTERNATIONAL DEBATES WE
HAVE.
>> Woodruff: YOU SAID IN YOUR
REMARKS THIS MORNING YOU
QUESTIONED HOW MUCH OF A MANDATE
PRIME MINISTER DAVID CAMERON
HAD, GIVEN THE RESULTS OF THESE
LAST PARLIAMENTARY ELECTION,
WHERE THE SCOTTISH NATIONAL
PARTY DID SO WELL WHAT, DO YOU
MEAN BY THAT?
WHAT ARE YOU SAYING?
ARE YOU CHALLENGING HIS
AUTHORITY?
>> I'M NOT CHALLENGING HIS
AUTHORITY.
DAVID CAMERON WON THE ELECTION--
IF YOU LOOK AT THE U.K. AS ONE
WHOLE UNIT.
HE WON THE ELECTION.
HE WON MOST SEATS AND MOST VOTES
AND, THEREFORE, HE IS THE PRIME
MINISTER AND HE FORMED THE
GOVERNMENT.
THE ARGUMENT I'M MAY GOING IS A
POLITICAL ONE.
U.K. IS NOT JUST ONE STATE.
IT'S A FAMILY OF FOUR NATIONS--
ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, WALES, AND
NORTHERN IRELAND.
AND DAVID CAMERON ONLY WON THE
ELECTION IN ONE OF THOSE FOUR
NATIONS, IN ENGLAND.
FIPG HE IS SENSIBLE WILL
DEMONSTRATE OR WANT TO
DEMONSTRATE THAT HE RECOGNIZES
THE DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE
UNITED KINGDOM VOTED IN
DIFFERENT WAYS AND THAT PUTS A
RESPONSIBILITY ON HIS SHOULDERS
TO TAKE ACCOUNT OF THE DIFFERENT
VIEWS AND THE DIFFERENT
PRIORITIES OF PEOPLE IN
SCOTLAND, WALES, AND NORTHERN
IRELAND.
>> Woodruff: HOW WOULD THAT
MANIFEST ITSELF IN A CONCRETE
WAY?
WHAT WOULD YOU LOOK FOR HIM TO
DO THAT HE'S NOT DOING?
>> IN A SCOTTISH CONTEXT TO,
RECOGNIZE PEOPLE IN SCOTLAND
WANT TO SEE THE SCOTTISH
PARLIAMENT BECOME MORE POWERFUL
AND AUTONOMOUS.
DAVID CAMERON IS PROPOSE
SOMETHING LIMITED ADDITIONAL
POWERS FOR THE SCOTTISH
GOVERNMENT BUT THERE'S AN
APPETITE IN SCOTT LAND FOR HIM
TO GO FURTHER.
SCOTLAND ALSO VOTE FORWARD A
PARTY, THE PARTY I LEAD, THAT
ARGUE AID DIFFERENT MONETARY
POLICY.
THAT THERE SHOULD BE A STANDARD
OF CONTINUED AUSTERITY-- NOT
THAT WE SHOULD CONTINUE TO FOCUS
ON DEFICIT REDUCTION, BUT WE
SHOULD BE ANTHRAX INVEST IN
INFRASTRUCTURE AND SKILLS IN
ORDER TO GROW THE ECONOMY FASTER
AND I THINK HIS ECONOMIC
POLICIES SHOULD TAKE ACCOUNT OF
THAT AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU STRIKE
THAT BALANCE?
HE IS PUSHING FOR AN AUSTERITY
PROGRAM, AS YOU DESCRIBED IT,
THAT'S SOMETHING YOU'RE NOT
COMFORTABLE WITH.
HOW DO YOU PUSH FOR THAT AT THE
SAME TIME MAINTAINING THE PLACE
THAT YOU HAVE IN THE GOVERNMENT
STRUCTURE?
>> TALKING TO DAVID CAMERON, IF
HE USES HIS MAJORITY ON TO PUSH
THINGS THROUGH THEN HE'LL SEND A
MESSAGE TO SCOTLAND AND WALES
AND NORTHERN IRELAND THAT SAYS
HE DOESN'T REALLY CARE HOW
PEOPLE IN THESE PARTS OF THE
U.K. VOTED.
HE'S GOING TO DO WHAT HE WANTS
ANYWAY.
AND OVER TIME, THAT MAY BE
COUNTER-PRODUCTIVE TO HIS
OBJECTIVE OF KEEPING THE U.K.
TOGETHER AS A FAMILY OF NATIONS.
>> Woodruff: IS THERE ANY
DOUBT IN YOUR MIND THAT SCOTTISH
INDEPENDENCE IS IN THE CARDS,
THAT IT'S COMING AT SOME POINT
IN THE FUTURE?
>> I BELIEVE SCOTLAND WILL BE AN
INDEPENDENT COUNTRY AT SOME
POINT IN THE FUTURE.
AND I SHOULD SAY, BEING
INDEPENDENT IN THE MODERN MODEL
MEANS INDEPENDENT IN A VERY
INTERDEPENDENT WORLD.
AN INDEPENDENT SCOTLAND IS NOT
APART FROM THE REST OF THE
UNITED KINGDOM.
WE WOULD WORK VERY CLOSELY WITH
THE REST OF THE UNITED KINGDOM
AND BE A KEY PART OF THE
EUROPEAN UNION AND AN ALLY IN
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY.
I CAN'T SAY FOR CERTAINTY WHEN
THAT WILL HAPPEN.
THERE'S NO SECOND INDEPENDENCE
REFERENDUM ON THE IMMEDIATE
HORIZON.
>> Woodruff: YOU'VE MADE IT
VERY CLEAR YOU DISAGREE WITH ANY
MOVES TO WITHDRAW THE U.K. FROM
THE EUROPEAN UNION SO, WE KNOW
THERE'S A DIFFERENCE THERE.
ARE THERE OTHER SIGNIFICANT
DIFFERENCES WE SHOULD KNOW ABOUT
BETWEEN YOU, THE SCOTTISH
NATIONAL PARTY, AND THE U.K.,
THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT, ON
FOREIGN POLICY?
>> WE SUPPORT NOT JUST THE
STANCE OF THE UNITED QINGDOM
GOVERNMENT, BUT THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY,
INCLUDING THE UNITED STATES, ON
ISSUES LIKE U.K. AND RUSSIA.
WE ARE VERY SUPPORTIVE OF THE
ACTIONS TAKEN THERE.
>> DEALING WITH THE ISIS THREAT
AND THE MIDDLE EAST GENERALLY.
>> Woodruff: A BIG DEBATE IN
THIS COUNTRY RIGHT NOW ABOUT
WHETHER U.S. FORCES SHOULD DO
MORE.
THE WHITE HOUSE HAS JUST
ANNOUNCED IN THE LAST DAY OR SO
THAT MORE ADVISERS WILL BE GOING
INTO IRAQ TO TRAIN IRAQI TROOPS
IN THE FIGHT AGAINST ISIS,
AGAINST ISIL.
ARE YOU IN FAVOR OF MORE GROUND
TROOPS IF THAT'S WHAT IT TAKES
TO GET RID OF ISIS?
>> I WOULD CERTAINLY, YOU KNOW,
BE SUPPORTIVE OF THE ACTIONS OF
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE WE IN THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY ARE
TAKING APPROPRIATE ACTION TO
MAKE SURE WE ARE COMBATING THE
THREAT OF ISIL.
I THINK PRESIDENT OBAMA,
GENERALLY, IN TERMS OF FOREIGN
POLICY, HAS BEEN A VERY
RESPONSIBLE AND MEASURED
PRESIDENT.
I THINK THERE IS-- AND I THINK
THERE SHOULD BE A GREATER
APPRECIATION, PARTICULARLY WITH
BIG POWERS LIKE THE UNITED
STATES, THAT INFLUENCE AND POWER
CAN BE SOFTER AND MORE
PERSUASIVE THAN SIMPLY
INTERVENING IN DIFFERENT PARTS
OF THE WORLD.
I GET THE IMPRESSION PRESIDENT
OBAMA INSTINCTIVELY UNDERSTANDS
THAT.
>> Woodruff: LAST QUESTION,
EUROPE-- THE VICTORY, THE
SUCCESS OF THE SCOTTISH NATIONAL
PARTY IN THESE LAST ELECTIONS
HAS PUT SCOTLAND ON THE MAP, IN
THE HEADLINES AGAIN IN A WAY IT
HASN'T BEEN IN A LONG TIME.
WHAT DO YOU WANT AMERICANS TO
KNOW?
WHAT SHOULD THEY LOOK FOR TO
COME FROM SCOTLAND IN THE MONTHS
ASK YEARS TO COME?
>> I OFTEN HAVE SAID WHEN I'VE
DONE BN HERE THIS WEEK THERE ARE
MORE PEOPLE IN THE UNITED STATES
WHO CLAIM A SCOTTISH CONNECTION
THAN THERE ARE IN SCOTLAND.
THE SCOTTISH DIASPORA HERE IS
VERY LARGE SP VERY STRONG.
THE TRADING AND ECONOMIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN OUR
COUNTRIES IS STRONG AND I HOPE
WILL GET STRONGER IN THE FUTURE.
SCOTLAND IS A FRIEND TO THE
UNITED STATES.
I HOPE THE UNITED STATES SEES
ITSELF AS A FROAND SCOTLAND AND
I THINK WE CAN LOOK FORWARD TO
THE LINK AND THE FRIENDSHIPS
BETWEEN OUR TWO COMPANIES
STRENGTHENING IN THE YEARS TO
COME.
>> Woodruff:IRST F MINISTER,
NICOLA STURGEON, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO OUR SPECIAL
SERIES ON STOPPING EBOLA.
THE WORST OF THE EPIDEMIC HAS
PASSED, BUT RECENTLY THERE HAS
BEEN A SMALL UPTICK IN CASES IN
WEST AFRICA.
MORE THAN 11,000 PEOPLE DIED
SINCE THE OUTBREAK BEGAN, 27,000
WERE INFECTED OVER THE PAST
YEAR.
AT ITS HEIGHT, EXPERTS WARNED
THE DEATH TOLL COULD CLIMB MUCH
HIGHER IF CERTAIN ACTIONS WERE
NOT TAKEN.
HOW EXPERTS WENT ABOUT DOING
THAT IS THE FOCUS OF OUR PIECE
FROM SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT MILES
O'BRIEN.
PART OF HIS SERIES "CRACKING
EBOLA'S CODE," SHOWCASING
RESEARCH AND INNOVATION TO HELP
TREAT EBOLA OR PREVENT ITS
SPREAD.
>> Reporter: EVER SINCE EBOLA
CAME TO SIERRA LEONE, THE
TRADITIONAL SUNDAY MORNING RUN
NEAR THE BEACH IN FREETOWN HAS
MOVED TO AN URGENT CADENCE.
BUT THE DOUBLE-TIME MARCH TO END
THE EBOLA CRISIS IS NOT OVER.
THE VIRUS, AND THE FINISH LINE,
REMAIN MOVING TARGETS.
AND AN ARMY OF PUBLIC HEALTH
WORKERS IN COMMAND CENTERS HERE
AND ALL AROUND THE GLOBE ARE
EMPLOYING SOPHISTICATED
MODELING TECHNOLOGY IN NEW WAYS
TO TRACK THE TRAJECTORY OF THE
EPIDEMIC.
>> WE STILL HAVE A LONG HARD
ROAD TO GET TO ZERO.
GETTING TO ZERO MEANS FINDING
EVERY CASE OF EBOLA, EVERY
CONTACT, AND MAKING SURE PEOPLE
ARE RAPIDLY ISOLATED.
>> Reporter: TOM FRIEDEN IS THE
DIRECTOR OF THE CENTERS FOR
DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION.
HE SAYS THEY WOULD BE NOWHERE
NEAR ZERO IF IT WASN'T FOR THE
POWER OF SOPHISTICATED
PREDICTIONS.
>> GETTING A RAPID ROBUST
RESPONSE IN WEST AFRICA WAS
INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT.
THE MODEL PROJECTED WHAT WOULD
HAPPEN IF WE DIDN'T DO THAT, AND
PROVIDING THAT INFORMATION WAS
QUITE IMPORTANT IN GALVANIZING
THE ENERGY AND PROGRESS THAT
WE'VE SEEN.
>> Reporter: AT AN EBOLA
TREATMENT CENTER RUN BY THE
INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL CORPS IN
KAMBIA, SIERRA LEONE, IT'S TIME
FOR THE SHIFT CHANGE BRIEFING.
>> THE PATIENT IS IN CRITICAL
CONDITION.
HE NEEDS A CLOSE MONITORING WHEN
YOU ENTER, HE HAS REDNESS OF THE
EYES, AND THERE'S BLEEDING FROM
THE NOSE.
>> Reporter: THERE ARE EIGHT
PATIENTS HERE, MOST AT DEATH'S
DOORSTEP.
DR. KASHIF ISLAM SIDDIQUI IS ONE
OF THE PHYSICIANS TAKING GREAT
RISKS TO TREAT EBOLA PATIENTS
WHILE THEY ARE MOST CONTAGIOUS.
>> ALTHOUGH ALL OF THEM ARE AT
THE STAGE WHERE THE SYMPTOMS ARE
MAXIMUM, BUT STILL WE ARE
HOPEFUL THAT MOST OF THEM WILL
MAKE IT.
>> Reporter: IT MAY BE THE END
GAME, BUT IT IS NO TIME TO
RELAX.
>> IN THE TAIL END OF THE
EPIDEMIC CURVE, WE HAVE HAD A
VERY BUMPY TIME.
SOMETIMES WE HAVE SEVERAL CASES
PER WEEK AND OTHER TIMES WE
MIGHT HAVE ONE IN SOME DISTRICTS
QUITE A FEW DISTRICTS IT'S ZERO.
>> Reporter: DR. PAUL ARMSTRONG
IS A FIELD COORDINATOR FOR THE
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION.
HIS JOB HERE IS MADE MORE
COMPLEX BY GEOGRAPHY.
WE ARE ONLY THREE MILES FROM THE
GUINEAN BORDER.
ON THE OTHER SIDE, THERE'S A
DUPLICATE TEAM MAKING THEIR OWN
PLANS, IN A DIFFERENT LANGUAGE.
AND WHILE THERE ARE CHECKPOINTS
WITH INFRARED CAMERAS AT THE
MAIN ROADS, THE BORDER IS
COMPLETELY POROUS MOST
EVERYWHERE ELSE.
>> SO WHENEVER WE HAVE A CASE,
WE MUST WORK AT WHO ARE THE
CLOSE CONTACTS OF THAT PERSON
WHO ALSO MIGHT BE HARBORING THE
INFECTION.
IF THEY CROSS THE BORDER, THEN
WE MUST TELL OUR COUNTERPARTS
OVER THERE, AND BECAUSE THEY
SPEAK FRENCH AND WE SPEAK
ENGLISH, THAT ADDS QUITE A
COMPLEXITY TO IT.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, 4,800
MILES AWAY, AT C.D.C.
HEADQUARTERS IN ATLANTA, THEY
ARE WATCHING IT ALL UNFOLD,
MONITORING GLOBALLY, BUT ACTING
LOCALLY.
>> THIS IS THE NERVE CENTER
WHERE WE TRACK WHAT'S HAPPENING
BOTH THE EPIDEMIC, THE RESPONSE
TO THE EPIDEMIC.
>> Reporter: BUT WHO AND WHAT TO
SEND?
AND WHERE?
AND WHAT IS JOB ONE?
FRIEDEN ADMITS HE HAD A HARD
TIME ANSWERING THOSE QUESTIONS.
THERE WAS NO PLAYBOOK FOR THIS.
>> ONE OF THE TREMENDOUS
CHALLENGES WITH THE EBOLA
EPIDEMIC FROM AUGUST AND
SEPTEMBER WAS THAT IT WAS A FOG
OF WAR SITUATION.
WE DIDN'T HAVE A CLEAR SENSE OF
WHAT WAS REALLY HAPPENING WITH
THE EPIDEMC.I
>> PARTICULARLY, AS YOU KNOW,
WE'RE NOW GOING TO FACE EVEN
MORE QUESTIONS ABOUT THOSE LINES
THAT GO UP.
>> Reporter: SO HE TURNED TO
THIS MAN.
MARTIN MELTZER IS A SENIOR
HEALTH ECONOMIST WHO HEADS THE
MODELING TEAM AT THE C.D.C.
>> WE DON'T MAKE UP THE ANSWER
THAT WILL MAKE ALL THE DECISIONS
FOR THEM.
WE PRODUCE SOME NUMBERS THAT
HELP THEM COME TO A DECISION.
>> Reporter: THEY FORMULATED A
MODEL DESIGNED TO PREDICT HOW
BAD THINGS MIGHT GET.
THEY FACTORED IN THINGS LIKE HOW
MANY CASES THERE ARE, HOW LONG
PEOPLE STAY SICK, HOW LIKELY
THEY ARE TO SURVIVE, HOW MANY
WILL SEEK CARE AND HOW MANY ARE
ACCURATELY DIAGNOSED, ALTHOUGH
THERE'S A LOT OF COMPLICATED
MATHEMATICS BENEATH WHAT YOU SEE
ON THE SCREEN, THE RESULT IS A
SIMPLE SPREADSHEET THAT IS
SHARED PUBLICLY.
MELTZER BELIEVES IN
TRANSPARENCY.
>> THESE PEOPLE HERE, IN THE
RED, ARE WHERE, YOU DON'T WANT
YOUR PATIENTS TO BE-- THEY ARE
AT HOME, THEY'RE NOT ISOLATED,
THERE ARE STILL CONNECTION AND
CONTACT WITH THE FAMILY AND THE
REST OF THE COMMUNITY AND THERE
IS NO SAFE BURIAL.
>> Reporter: WHEN MELTZER AND
HIS TEAM FIRST RAN THE NUMBERS,
THE RESULTS TOOK THEIR BREATH
AWAY.
THE LINE QUICKLY WENT OFF THE
CHARTS.
AN EXPONENTIAL TRAIN WRECK--
1.4 MILLION CONFIRMED EBOLA
CASES PREDICTED IN A FEW MONTHS
IF ASSISTANCE WAS NOT MOBILIZED
IMMEDIATELY.
>> EVERY MONTH OF DELAY MORE
THAN DOUBLED THE NUMBER OF CASES
THAT MIGHT OCCUR BECAUSE OF THAT
DELAY.
THE MODEL ULTIMATELY SHOWED NOT
ONLY THE PROBLEM BUT THE NEED TO
SOLVE IT BY GOING BIG AND GOING
FAST.
>> YOU DOUBLE AND YOU DOUBLE AND
YOU DOUBLE.
AND IF YOU DON'T BREAK THE BACK
OF EXPONENTIAL GROWTH, YOU GET
INTO A SITUATION THAT'S EVEN
MORE HORRIFIC THAN WHAT WE SAW.
>> Reporter: OTHER DISEASE
MODELERS WERE EQUALLY ALARMED.
AT NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY,
ALESSANDRO VESPIGNANI ALSO
CREATED AN EBOLA EPIDEMIC MODEL
AT HIS LABORATORY FOR THE
MODELING OF BIOLOGICAL AND
SOCIO-TECHNICAL SYSTEMS.
IT PREDICTED THAT IF NOTHING WAS
DONE, EBOLA WOULD SPREAD WAY
BEYOND WEST AFRICA.
>> AND YOU WILL SEE THAT BY
FEBRUARY ALREADY, YOU GET AFRICA
THAT IS IN A VERY BAD SITUATION,
BUT THEN, YOU START TO HAVE
PLACES WHICH HAVE SERIOUS
OUTBREAKS IN VARIOUS PLACES IN
EUROPE.
>> Reporter: PARIS LONDON AND
NEW YORK WOULD HAVE ALL BEEN
COPING WITH SERIOUS EBOLA
OUTBREAKS.
>> THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WOULD
BE REALLY A WORST CASE SCENARIO.
SO THAT WOULD BE SOMETHING THAT
YOU DON'T EVEN WANT TO THINK
ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: WOW!
THAT'S MANY MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
AFFLICTED, RIGHT?
>> THAT WOULD BE OBVIOUSLY
SOMETHING THAT IS UNTHINKABLE.
>> Reporter: BUT THE C.D.C.
MAKES NO APOLOGY FOR SHARING THE
WORST-CASE SCENARIO.
>> I DON'T THINK OF TERMS OF
SCARING OR NOT SCARING PEOPLE.
I LOOK AT THE NUMBERS.
I LOOK AT THEM AND SAY, "IS THIS
A FAIR REPRESENTATION WE KNOW AT
THAT TIME?"
>> Reporter: THE TRICKIER PART
WAS HOW TO RESPOND.
THE MODELS MADE IT FRIGHTENINGLY
CLEAR, THERE WAS NO EARTHLY WAY
TO BUILD EBOLA TREATMENT CENTERS
FAST ENOUGH TO ANSWER THE
CRUSHING NEED FOR ISOLATION
CARE.
THESO ONLY WAY TO STOP THE
EPIDEMIC WAS TO CHANGE HUMAN
BEHAVIOR.
PUBLIC HEALTH PROFESSIONALS HAD
TO EDUCATE PEOPLE TO ROUTINELY
WASH THEIR HANDS, STOP EMBRACING
EACH OTHER, AND MOST IMPORTANT,
REFRAIN FROM THE RITUAL WASHING
OF THE DEAD.
IF ALL THIS COULD HAPPEN, THE
MODEL YIELDED SOME GOOD NEWS.
>> IF YOU GOT THE 70% SAFE
BURIAL OR SAFE TREATMENT, YOU
GOT IT TO A TIPPING POINT.
THAT WAS REALLY IMPORTANT.
THAT GAVE US A GOAL.
SURPRISINGLY, IT SHOWED THAT IF
YOU DID THAT IT WOULD ALSO COME
DOWN EXPONENTIALLY AS WELL.
>> Reporter: IN FREETOWN SIERRA
LEONE, PUBLIC HEALTH OFFICIALS,
ALREADY UNDER SIEGE, WERE
STUNNED BY THE GRIM OUTLOOK.
DR. MOHAMED SAMAI IS PROVOST OF
THE COLLEGE OF MEDICINE AND
ALLIED HEALTH SCIENCES.
>> WELL, INITIALLY, THE FIRST
THING IS DENIAL.
YOU MAY JUST SAY IT'S
IMPOSSIBLE.
BUT THEN LOOKING AT THE CULTURAL
BELIEFS OF OUR PEOPLE, THEN
YOU'LL BE TEMPTED TO BELIEVE
THAT THAT PROJECTION WILL
DEFINITELY COME TO PASS.
>> Reporter: IN THE ISOLATED
VILLAGES OF WEST AFRICA, MANY
BELIEVE IN WITCHCRAFT AND HOME
REMEDIES.
SOME ARE CONVINCED EBOLA IS A
PLOT BY WHITE PEOPLE, IF IT
EXISTS AT ALL.
VANDY KAMARDOESA OUTREACH FOR
THE INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL CORPS.
>> A LOT OF THE CHIEFDOMS, A LOT
OF THE PEOPLE THAT WE MEET IN
THE CHIEFDOMS SIMPLY HAVE BEEN
CHALLENGING US THAT EBOLA IS NO
REAL, THAT IT'S JUST SOMETHING
THAT WAS MADE UP, AND THEY ARE
STILL IN DENIAL.
>> Reporter: BUT THE GRIM
REALITY OF THE EPIDEMIC COUPLED
WITH AN INTENSE PUBLIC OUTREACH
EFFORT EVENTUALLY TURN THE TIDE.
SAFE BURIAL PRACTICES BECAME
COMMON, AND PEOPLE IN THE
DENSELY POPULATED CITIES OF WEST
AFRICA CHANGED THE WAY THEY
INTERACTED WITH EACH OTHER.
THE PREDICTIONS OF MILLIONS OF
EBOLA CASES DID NOT PAN OUT.
>> WE DON'T WANT TO BE RIGHT.
I DON'T WANT TO HAVE MILLIONS OF
PEOPLE DIE.
WHAT WE WANT TO SAY IS, "LOOK.
THIS IS GOING TO HAPPEN IF WE
DON'T DO SOMETHING."
>> Reporter: TODAY THERE ARE
HUNDREDS OF SURPLUS ISOLATION
BEDS IN TEMPORARY STRUCTURES
LIKE THESE ALL THROUGHOUT WEST
AFRICA.
BUILT BY THE U.S. AND OTHER
WESTERN NATIONS, THEY WERE TOO
LATE.
FORTUNATELY THEY ARE TOO MUCH,
FOR NOW.
BUT WHEN MODELERS RUN THE
NUMBERS ON THE PEOPLE AND THE
DISEASES THAT INTERSECT IN THIS
PART OF THE WORLD, THEY ARE
CERTAIN ANOTHER EXPONENTIAL
THREAT LIES AHEAD.
MILES O'BRIEN FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, FREETOWN, SIERRA,
LEONE.
>> Woodruff: BEFORE YOU HEAD OUT
FOR A MEAL TONIGHT, A STORY THAT
ASKS HOW MUCH DO YOU REALLY WANT
THAT DINNER RESERVATION?
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN EXPLORES WHY SOME
RESTAURANTS ARE REQUIRING
CUSTOMERS TO PAY FOR THEIR MEAL
AHEAD OF TIME.
IT'S PART OF OUR ONGOING
REPORTING, "MAKING SENSE," WHICH
AIRS EVERY THURSDAY ON THE
NEWSHOUR.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON, RPM ITALIAN.
>> Reporter: A POPULAR MID-RANGE
RESTAURANT IN CHICAGO.
LOOKING FOR A PRIME TIME TABLE A
FEW WEEKS OUT?
>> IT LOOKS LIKE I CAN DO 5:00,
OR YOU'RE LOOKING AT ABOUT
10:00.
>> Reporter: RESERVATIONS, IT
SEEMS, ARE A PROBLEM AT, AND
FOR, PRETTY MUCH EVERY EATERY
TONIER THAN ARBY'S, ALL THE WAY
UP TO ALINEA, #1 IN CHICAGO ON
TRIPADVISOR, 26th IN THE WORLD
SAYS RESTAURANT MAGAZINE.
TO CO-OWNER NICK KOKONAS,
RESERVATIONS CAN BE A DANCE OF
DECEPTION BETWEEN RESTAURANT AND
CUSTOMER.
>> I THINK WE'VE ALL HAD THAT
EXPERIENCE WHERE WE CALL A
RESTAURANT, AND WE FEEL LIKE THE
PERSON'S LYING TO THEM.
IT'S EVIDENCED BY THE FACT THAT
WHEN YOU SHOW UP AT AN 8:00
RESERVATION ON A SATURDAY, YOUR
TABLE IS HARDLY EVER WAITING FOR
YOU.
>> Reporter: WHY IS THAT?
>> ONE, THERE'S A NO-SHOW RATE,
OF 10% PERCENT, 12% PERCENT.
>> Reporter: SO, RESTAURANTS ARE
OVERBOOKING.
>> JUST LIKE THE AIRLINES DO.
AND THE OTHER THING IS THAT
THEY'RE AFRAID TO SAY NO TO
PEOPLE.
SO, THEY KNOW PEOPLE WILL, IF
THEY ARRIVE AT A RESTAURANT AND
THE TABLE'S NOT QUITE READY,
THEY'LL GO TO THE BAR FOR 40
MINUTES, THEY'LL SPEND A LITTLE
MORE MONEY, AND THEN THEY'RE NOT
GONNA LEAVE AT THAT POINT, IT'S
SATURDAY NIGHT.
>> Reporter: SO THE RESTAURANTS
LIE TO THE PEOPLE, AND THEN THE
PEOPLE WHO KNOW THEY MIGHT NOT
SHOW UP ARE LYING TO THE
RESTAURANT.
>> I THINK IT'S A MINORITY OF
THE RESTAURANTS, AND A MINORITY
WITH THE PEOPLE, BUT IT SORT OF
SPOILS THE KETTLE FOR EVERYBODY
ELSE.
>> Reporter: ALINEA, HE SAYS,
PLAYED IT STRAIGHT, AT
CONSIDERABLE COST.
THE TEMPLE OF MOLECULAR
GASTRONOMY HE CREATED WITH CHEF
GRANT ACHATZ SERVES SALAD THAT'S
STILL GROWING, AN 86-COMPONENT
LAMB DISH, AELIU HM-FILLED GREEN
APPLE BALLOON FOR DESSERT,
CUISINE THAT DOESN'T COME CHEAP,
AT A RESTAURANT WHERE DINNERS
FOR TWO, INCLUDING WINE, TAX,
AND TIP CAN REACH $1,000, NO-
SHOWS ARE A PRICY PROPOSITION.
>> WE HAD ABOUT 110 PEOPLE A
MONTH THAT DIDN'T SHOW UP, WHO
SAID THEY WERE SHOWING UP.
AND,OU M YULTIPLY THAT BY A FEW
HUNDRED DOLLARS A PERSON, AND
ALL THE TIME IT TAKES TO MAKE
ALL THAT FOOD AND ALL THE WASTE,
I MEAN, IT'S $4-, $5-, $600,000
A YEAR, JUST AT OUR ONE 64-SEAT
RESTAURANT.
THIS IS A PROBLEM WHICH IS
UBIQUITOUS IN A HUGE INDUSTRY.
8% PERCENT OF THE G.D.P., OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT, IS FOOD
SERVICE.
>> Reporter: SO FOUR YEARS AGO,
WHEN KOKONAS AND ACHATZ OPENED A
NEW RESTAURANT, CALLED NEXT,
THEY REPLACED RESERVATIONS WITH
TICKETS, REQUIRING FULL PAYMENT
IN ADVANCE.
BUT KOKONAS THINKS TICKETS ARE
AN OPTION FOR RESTAURANTS FAR
MORE MODEST THAN HIS OWN.
>> IN THE CASE OF ALINEA OR
NEXT, WE CHARGE FOR THE ENTIRE
MEAL.
IN A MORE CASUAL RESTAURANT,
THAT THE CHECK MIGHT BE $25 A
PERSON, IT'S JUST A $5 OR $10
DEPOSIT, AND IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
TO NOTE THAT ALL OF THAT MONEY,
IT'S NOT A COVER CHARGE.
ALL THAT MONEY GETS APPLIED TO
YOUR BILL.
>> Reporter: SO, PEOPLE JUST BY
PUTTING DOWN $5 BUCKS, WILL THEN
MORE CONSISTENTLY HONOR THE
RESERVATION THEY'VE MADE?
>> HUGELY MORE CONSISTENTLY.
THEY DON'T WANT TO LOSE THAT
DEPOSIT.
>> Reporter: PUTTING HIS NOW-
AMPLE MONEY WHERE HIS WELL-FED
MOUTH WAS, KOKONAS FOUNDED TOCK,
TO SCALE UP NEXT'S TICKETING
SOFTWARE FOR RESTAURANTS
WORLDWIDE.
>> TODAY IS ACTUALLY THE LAUNCH
DAY.
>> Reporter: 11:00 LAUNCH! WHAT
TIME IS IT?
>> IT'S 11:00.
(laughter)
>> Reporter: YOU'RE LITERALLY
LAUNCHING NOW!
>> YEAH, ANY MINUTE.
>> Reporter: WELL, JUST AS SOON
AS THEY EXTERMINATE A FEW BUGS.
>> IT LOOKS LIKE TOCK HAS CAUSED
THE NEXT SITE TO CRASH, WHICH
LOOKS REALLY BAD.
>> ONE MORE PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: BRIAN FITZPATRICK,
STARTED GOOGLE'S ENGINEERING
OFFICE, NOW RIGHT ACROSS THE
STREET, LEFT LAST NOVEMBER TO
CO-FOUND TOCK.
>> HERE IT IS, IT'S FIXED.
>> ARE YOU GOOD?
>> I'M GOOD?
>> NICOLE?
ARE YOU GOOD.
>> I'M GOOD.
>> DO IT, YOU'RE GOOD.
>> POST.
>> FIGHTER MISSILES.
>> HERE WE GO.
>> Reporter: AT EXACTLY 12:28,
THEY WENT LIVE.
>> HEY, IT'S UP!
>> Reporter: WITHIN MOMENTS,
DOZENS OF CUSTOMERS WERE ON
NEXT'S WEBSITE, BUYING THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS WORTH OF TICKS VIETA
TOCK.
WHY WAS FITZPATRICK WILLING TO
LEAVE A CUSHY CAREER AT GOOGLE
FOR FOO AD STARTUP?
>> BECAUSE I THOUGHT THAT NICK'S
IDEA IS SOMETHING THAT COULD
TRANSFORM AN INDUSTRY.
>> Reporter: BY TOTAL
TRANSPARENCY AND VARIABLE
PRICING, AS HERE ON FRIDAY, JULY
3.
AT 5:30: A $90-PER-PERSON EARLY
BIRD SPECIAL, TWO TABLES LEFT.
8:00: $120, AND BACK DOWN TO
LOWER PRICES AT 10:00.
>> SO IT'S FULL TRANSPARENCY
THERE.
>> Reporter: SO THAT'S WHATHET
CUSTOMER SEES OF TK.OC
AND THE RESTAURANT?
>> RED IS TABLES SOLD.
YELLOW IS TABLES HELD EVERY
RESTAURANT HOLDS A FEW TABLES
EVERY NIGHT.
FRIENDS OF THE CHEF, V.I.P.s,
THAT SORT OF THING, RIGHT?
GREEN TABLES ARE TABLES THAT ARE
AVAILABLE.
YOUR GOAL AS A RESTAURATEUR IS
TO HAVE EVERYTHING HERE TURN
RED.
>> THE MOST EXPENSIVE THING IN
OUR BUSINESS IS AN EMPTY SEAT.
>> Reporter: JERROD MELMAN IS A
MANAGING PARTNER OF LETTUCE
ENTERTAIN YOU ENTERPRISES, A
FAMILY BUSINESS THAT OWNS OR
OPERATES A HUNDRED RESURANTATS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY, FROM BURGER
JOINTS ON UP.
HIS FATHE AN R,ORIGINAL INVESTOR
IN THE OPEN TABLE RESERVATION
WEBSITE, ALSO INVESTED IN TOCK,
TESTED IT IN THEIR TOP
RESTAURANT, INTRO.
IT'S BEEN A PALPABLE HIT.
>> ONE OF THE MOST APPEALING
THINGS ABOUT TOCK HAS BEEN HOW
LOW THE NO-SHOW RATE HAS BEEN,
WHILE USING THE SYSTEM.
IT'S VIRTUALLY ZERO.
AS A COMPANY WITH RESTAURANTS AT
ALL SORTS OF DIFFERENT PRICE
POINTS, WE THINK THAT THE MODEL,
YOU KNOW, WHERE PEOPLE AREN'T
NECESSARILY PAYING FOR THE
ENTIRE MEAL AHEAD OF TIME, WILL
HOPEFULLY BE SUCCESSFUL IN, IN
ALL OF OUR RESTAURANTS.
>> Reporter: NOW THERE IS A
SUBSTANTIAL COST TO RESTAURANTS
FOR THIS SERVICE: $695 A MONTH.
AND THE COST TO THE PUBLIC?
>> THE PEOPLE WHO AREN'T GOING
TO LIKE THIS ARE THE PEOPLE THAT
LIKE TO SKIP OUT ON
RESERVATIONS.
>> Reporter: AREN'T YOU
POTENTIALLY OFFENDING CUSTOMERS
BY SUGGESTING THAT THEY WERE
GOING TO BREAK THEIR
RESERVATION, AND THE ONLY WAY TO
GET THEM TO HONOR IT IS TO HAVE
THEM PONY UP?
>> DOES THE OPERA ASSUME THAT
YOU'RE A CULPRIT IF THEY ASK YOU
TO BUY A TICKET?
I THINK THAT JUST LIKE IT
WOULD'VE SEEMED WEIRD TO GO
ONLINE AND BUY A PLANE TICKET 15
YEARS AGO, A FEW YEARS FROM NOW,
IT'LL SEEM REALLY WEIRD TO NOT
BE ABLE TO BOOK A RESTAURANT
THIS WAY.
>> WANT TO DO 10:00?
>> Reporter: UNTIL THEN,
HOWEVER, THE FOLKS AT TOCK
SUGGEST TAKING THIS
RECEIONIPTST'S ADVICE:
>> I WOULD GIVE US A CALL BACK
THE DAY BEFORE.
THAT WOULD BE THE BEST WAY TO
CHECK ON ANY CANCELLATIONS.
>> Reporter: THIS IS ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT PAUL SOLMAN,
REPORTING FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR
FROM THE CUTTING EDGE OF HIGH
TECH CUISINE, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, THEY'RE ABOUT SURVIVAL,
CONFIDENCE AND EMPOWERMENT,
BUT SOME OF THE MOST FAMOUS
SONGS EMBRACED BY THE MODERN GAY
RIGHTS MOVEMENT, INCLUDING DIANA
ROSS'S "I'M COMING OUT," ALMOST
NEVER CAME TO BE.
READ ABOUT THEIR ORIGINS AND
LISTEN TO A PLAYLIST OF ICONIC
LGBT ANTHEMS, ON OUR HOME PAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
TONIGHT ON CHARLIE ROSE, AIRING
ON MOST OF THESE PBS STATIONS,
THE "NEW YORKER MAGAZINE's"
DEXTER FILKINS ON THE ADDITIONAL
U.S. MILITARY ADVISORS GOING
INTO IRAQ TO SUPPORT IRAQ'S
FIGHT AGAINST ISIS.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE'LL HAVE MILES
O'BRIEN'S FINAL REPORT FROM WEST
AFRICA ON THE ON GOING HUNT FOR
EFFECTIVE EBOLA VACCINES.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING, WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
FOR ALL OUS HF ERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.